1. Using Insert Function, give examples of any function available in the different dropdowns present in the function library.
   For example AutoSum, Recently Used, Text, Date & Time, etc.

Sol: 

1.AutoSum (Formulas dropdown):

SUM: Adds up a range of cells.
AVERAGE: Calculates the average of a range of cells.
COUNT: Counts the number of cells that contain numbers in a range.
MAX: Returns the maximum value from a range of cells.
MIN: Returns the minimum value from a range of cells.
Recently Used (Formulas dropdown):

2.IF: Checks whether a condition is met and returns one value if true and another value if false.
VLOOKUP: Searches for a value in the first column of a range and returns a corresponding value from another column.
CONCATENATE: Joins two or more text strings into one.
INDEX: Returns the value of a cell in a specified row and column of a range.
MATCH: Searches for a specified item in a range of cells and returns its relative position.
Text (Text dropdown):

3.LEFT: Extracts a specified number of characters from the beginning of a text string.
RIGHT: Extracts a specified number of characters from the end of a text string.
LEN: Returns the number of characters in a text string.
CONCAT: Joins two or more text strings into one.
PROPER: Capitalizes the first letter of each word in a text string.
Date & Time (Date & Time dropdown):

4.TODAY: Returns the current date.
NOW: Returns the current date and time.
DATE: Returns the serial number of a particular date.
YEAR: Returns the year of a specified date.
MONTH: Returns the month of a specified date.


2.What are the different ways you can select columns and rows?

Sol:  The different ways you can select columns and rows:

1.Mouse Selection:

a)Columns: Click on the column header (the lettered row at the top) of the desired column. The entire column will be selected.
b)Rows: Click on the row header (the numbered column at the left) of the desired row. The entire row will be selected.

2.Keyboard Shortcuts:

a)Columns: Use the Shift key along with the arrow keys to extend the selection. For example, press Shift+Right Arrow to select multiple
   columns to the right.
b)Rows: Use the Shift key along with the arrow keys to extend the selection. For example, press Shift+Down Arrow to select multiple rows below.

3.Select All:

a)Columns: Press Ctrl+Spacebar to select the entire column where the active cell is located.
b)Rows: Press Shift+Spacebar to select the entire row where the active cell is located.


3.What is AutoFit and why do we use it?

Sol: AutoFit is a feature available in spreadsheet software like Microsoft Excel and Google Sheets. It allows we to automatically 
     adjust the width of a column or the height of a row to fit the contents within it.

a)Fit Content: When you have cell contents that are too long or wide for the default column or row width, using AutoFit ensures that the content 
  is fully visible without being truncated. 

b)Enhanced Readability: By using AutoFit, you can optimize the layout of your spreadsheet for better readability. 


4.How can you insert new rows and columns into the existing table?

Sol: Inserting a New Row:-

1.Select the row below which you want to insert the new row. Click on the row number on the left side to select the entire row.
2.Right-click on the selected row and choose the "Insert" or Insert Row option from the context menu. Alternatively, we can also go 
  to the "Insert" tab in the toolbar and click on the Insert Sheet Rows button.
3.A new row will be inserted above the selected row, pushing the existing rows downward.we can start entering data or formulas in the newly inserted row.

Inserting a New Column:-

1.Select the column to the right of which you want to insert the new column. Click on the column letter at the top to select the entire column.
2.Right-click on the selected column and choose the Insert or Insert Column option from the context menu. Alternatively, we can go to the 
  Insert tab in the toolbar and click on the "Insert Sheet Columns" button.
3.A new column will be inserted to the left of the selected column, shifting the existing columns to the right.we can begin entering data or 
  formulas in the newly inserted column.


5.How do you hide and unhide columns in excel?

Sol:Hiding Columns:-

1.Select the column(s) that you want to hide. You can do this by clicking on the column header(s) at the top of the spreadsheet. To select 
  multiple columns, hold down the Ctrl key while clicking on the desired column headers.
2.Right-click on any selected column header, and from the context menu, choose Hide or Hide Columns. Alternatively, we can go to the Home
  tab in the toolbar, click on the Format dropdown in the Cells group, and choose Hide & Unhide and then Hide Columns.
3.The selected columns will be hidden, and the remaining columns will shift to the left to fill the gap. The hidden columns will not be
   visible on the spreadsheet.

Unhiding Columns:

1.Select the columns adjacent to the hidden columns. For example, if we have hidden columns C and D, select columns B and E.
2.Right-click on any selected column header, and from the context menu, choose Unhide or Unhide Columns. Alternatively, go to
 the Home tab in the toolbar, click on the "Format" dropdown in the "Cells" group, choose "Hide & Unhide" and then Unhide Columns.
3.The hidden columns will be displayed again, appearing between the adjacent columns we selected.


6.Create an appropriate table within the worksheet and use different functions available in the AutoSum command.

Sol: An example of an appropriate table within a worksheet where we can use different functions available in the AutoSum command:-

  A	B	C	   D
Item	Price	Quantity   Total
Apple	1.5	10	   =B2*C2
Banana	0.8	15	   =B3*C3
Orange	2.0	8	   =B4*C4
Total			   =SUM(D2:D4)


 In this example, we have a table with four columns: "Item," "Price," "Quantity," and "Total." The "Total" column uses the AutoSum command to 
 calculate the product of the Price and Quantity for each item.

To use different functions available in the AutoSum command:-

1.Select cell D2, which is the first cell in the "Total" column.
2.Click on the AutoSum button (∑) in the toolbar or go to the "Formulas" tab and click on the "AutoSum" dropdown in the "Editing" group.
3.By default, AutoSum selects the adjacent cells above the active cell (in this case, cells D2 and D3).
4.Press Enter to apply the SUM function, which sums the values in cells D2 and D3.
5.Cell D4 will display the total value calculated by the SUM function.
6.we can also use different AutoSum functions by clicking on the drop-down arrow next to the AutoSum button in the toolbar.
7.Some commonly used functions available in AutoSum include AVERAGE, COUNT, MAX, MIN, and more.










